When we build strong faith
in times of peace,
we can find courage during times
of testing and persecution.
Brother Rocky Webb
from the United States
learned to be a fighter
as a young man.
But as his faith grew,
he learned that Jehovah is there
“to help us and to fight our battles.”
All of us are going to be tested
one way or the other
before we make it into the new world.
And if we can endure
those tests faithfully,
faithfully,
then we’ll make it.
My dad and my mother
taught me the truth.
What drove me to be baptized
was the convention in Washington, D.C.
Brother Rutherford gave the talk
on “the meek shall inherit the earth.”
It touched my heart in a way
that it’s never left
from that minute on,
right on up to now.
It gave me faith to stay
with Jehovah all the way.
The bullies would come
and jump onto me,
and I would come home
pretty well beat up.
So that’s when I started training for boxing.
I was offered $40,000 for a fight
—win or lose.
And if I won the second fight,
they would double the amount.
Brother Macmillan was like a second
dad to me and my brother.
And he asked me, and he said,
“Would you do me a favor?”
He said, “Don’t put the gloves on no more.”
And so I didn’t put them on anymore.
I think he knew
that it wouldn’t be very long
before there’d be an article on it.
It came out and told
that boxing wasn’t for Christians.
I was drafted during this time,
and I refused to serve
and was sent to prison.
All the time,
I never, never,
ever slowed down
on my theocratic deals,
never.
I kept right on on it.
The jail warden overheard me
witnessing to another inmate.
He told me,
“Don’t do anymore of that.”
He said, “We don’t allow it here.”
Three days had passed by,
and he’d seen me talking to him again.
And they put me in a car that was shaded
—you couldn’t see out.
I didn’t know where I was going.
It was an old, old prison,
just dark as could be in there.
It was three feet (1 m) around.
And they called it “the Sweat Box.”
All the time I was in there,
I’d just sweat, sweat, sweat.
And I went in
weighing 213 pounds (97 kg),
and I came out
weighing 133 pounds (60 kg).
Psalm 144 says:
“May Jehovah, my Rock, be praised,
“who trains my hands for battle,
my fingers for warfare.”
I gave my life
to give Jehovah my faith.
I lived in Wewoka.
Several congregations
would come together to work.
We were confronted by mobs.
There were a lot of them
that were injured.
I had 80 stitches up here,
and I had 13 in the side there,
on each stab.
I was really, really beat up.
But I couldn’t have stood up
if it hadn’t been for Jehovah.
I knew he was with me
some way or another.
So we sued the town and won $20,000.
The Society called us and said:
“You did very good
in what all you’ve done”
but said,
“Remember, we’re not out for money.
Make sure
that that’s made known to them.”
When we walked up to the desk,
they slid the papers out to us
and said, “Sign them up.”
And we just took them and slid them back.
It came out in the papers,
‘Tell them to come back
and do all they want to do
in the way of their witnessing.’
It said, ‘We won’t touch them.’
They really highly respected us
for what we did,
and so that opened it up.
And we had
a real good congregation there
that got started and everything.
My first wife was a blessing for me,
but when she died,
Jehovah stepped in
and gave me another good one.
We mow the lawns together.
No, no, we do most everything together.
We study to where
we can feel it in our hearts.
When you give your faith to Jehovah,
you’re giving your life to him.
He’s permitted these things
to come upon me;
I knew that.
But he protected me.
Brother Webb is now 94 years old.
But as we saw,
he and his wife, Charlene,
keep themselves spiritually active.
What lessons did you see
in Rocky’s experience?
For one, we heard
that Rocky learned to be a boxer
to protect himself from bullies;
yet he responded in faith
to loving counsel to quit
—even before God’s people
had a clear understanding
of violent sports.
Making that change
helped Rocky to continue cultivating
a Christlike personality.
That prepared him to stand firm
when imprisoned for his faith,
and it helped him
to not return evil for evil
when persecuted for his ministry.
He had faith that although Jehovah
permitted these things to happen,
He was also there to protect him.
Examples like those of Rocky
and the others we’ve considered
warm our hearts and let us know
we’re never alone
in our fight for the faith.